[ Music ]
>> Regina Meredith: I doubt
there's anyone watching this
that hasn't had to struggle
with subconscious belief
patterns that have stopped you
from manifesting what you want.
The haunting voices of parents,
teachers, religious leaders,
and societal icons have
left us with the impression
that we are somehow less than
in one area of life or another.
Dr. Nick Delgado has learned
to overwrite those
patterns with new scripts.
It requires learning
a new kind of focus,
which is called open-eyed
relaxation.
He is joining us now to
show us how it works,
and he says it really does work
to rewrite those
outdated beliefs.
Welcome. This is something
that I find fascinating,
because I love the power of
hypnosis and self-hypnosis,
and have had quite a bit of
experience personally with it.
And so, I totally appreciate
it when someone has come
up with a very elegant
and direct system
of accessing the
subconscious mind.
Because people are afraid.
A lot of people are afraid
to go under hypnosis.
>> Nick Delgado: That's exactly
why I tend to refer to it
as laser focused concentration,
because the reality is,
in a deep state of trance, we're
simply relaxed and focused.
We're not zonked out.
We're not unaware of
what we're being told
and what we're hearing.
So the ideal situation
is, when you first wake
up in the morning, when you're
just barely opening your eyes,
is to listen to the
scripts, or read them.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: I like
to listen to them,
because if I record them back
into my device, my phone device,
which is always near me, I
play it back and I listen
to these scripts and they take
me through the very challenges
that I have, as we all do, in
our society, whether I'm wanting
to manifest better public
speaking or more energy
or to be committed my exercise
program on a daily basis,
as I'm training for my next
world championship competition.
Or maybe you just want to
attract that lovely mate
that you've always wanted.
Or you want to talk better to
your children or your staff
or your employees, or just
treat yourself better.
I think that there's a challenge
that sometimes we realize
that there's so many
things going on,
and so many things
programming us;
the television news programs us.
You know...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...the
church programs us.
>> Regina: You bet.
>> Delgado: Our schools
program us.
There's -- everywhere
we go, someone's trying
to divert us away from our
true values and our goals
and help them to
manifest their own.
>> Regina: Exactly.
Using our people power
to manifest something
for their own system.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: Yeah.
I don't like that.
I do not like that.
>> Delgado: We were born...
>> Regina: We are
sovereign beings.
>> Delgado: ...in America.
>> Regina: We will.
>> Delgado: That's right.
>> Regina: We're
sovereign beings each
with a very unique purpose.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And to not be
able to have the possibility
of expressing that, to me,
is one of the saddest
things in the world.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: Finding people
even in middle years who say,
oh, I just don't know
what I'm here for,
who haven't had the chance
to even explore that yet.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: That really
upsets me.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: So that's why
I like.. that's why I really
like what you're doing.
And, you know, sometimes
when we think about this
and we talk about, oh, we have
a little script for, you know,
attracting your true mate
and so forth, it seems so --
almost kind of happy,
New Age, and we think
of "Saturday Night Live."
I don't know if you remember
when Al Franken did
Stuart Smalley.
>> Delgado: Oh.
>> Regina: I think was his name.
Standing in front of the mirror.
But by golly, I am
good enough [laughter].
And it gave the whole
thing such a bad name.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: So let's talk
about it in reality.
You have five kids.
You're a world champion
at strength and endurance.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: And you have a
booming business, obviously,
that you need a tremendous
amount of clarity and focus
to do what you do every day.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: So how did
this project come about?
>> Delgado: I've
always been attracted
to learning how the
mind functions.
In fact, in my undergraduate
training,
I went to the University of
Southern California, USC,
and I spent four years
there as a pre-med student,
but I focused on psychology.
That was my degree, my
bachelor's degree in psychology.
Dr. Frasier [assumed spelling],
Dr. Laswell [assumed spelling],
the different professors there,
I was lucky because they
were published authors,
but they were continuing
to do research.
It was publish or
perish, you know.
And so, they were the
firsthand knowledge person.
They were the one who
wrote the textbooks.
And I was fortunate.
One of the professors put us
through a class of hypnotherapy
and I was concerned because,
you know, he was going to do it.
But the next class I had was a
calculus organic chemistry class
and I was worried that
if I let myself go under,
that I would somehow
be distracted
and not be focused for my test.
Little did I know, if I
had learned at that time,
which later the professors
and my teachings,
and trainings showed me, that
the better you learn how to get
into that relaxed focused
state, the better you learned.
We learn very rapidly.
Our mind can learn and the more
rapid we take on information
in a relaxed state, in a
focused state, we will absorb it
and our unconscious mind can
actually then, which makes 80%
or 90% of all our decisions...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...will
then be reconditioned
to do what we want
on daily basis.
And here's the exciting thing.
One study came out, American
Health, and it showed
that it took 600
psychoanalysis sessions
with only a 30% success rate
with why the client came
to see the doctor,
laying on a couch,
telling the doctor what their
problems were from childhood.
In all, 600 sessions.
Behavioral therapy
only took 72 sessions,
and that elicited
a 67% success rate.
But here's the exciting thing.
Hypnotherapy only
took six sessions
and had a 97% success rate.
>> Regina: Oh, I'm
with you on that.
Absolutely.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I know.
It is beautiful.
And the thing is, we can
do that for ourselves.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And what
you're talking about,
everybody knows this, because
when information is flying
at us, you know,
we'll be like this.
People will often go like
this and say, hold on.
Hold on. Just as second.
Just a second.
And once that happens and you
can back off and take a breath
and open your mind, then
you can absorb the onslaught
of information.
We all do this all the time.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: Slowing
that world down.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: You know, I
think it takes a combination
of trust in the script.
I went through all my
colleagues' scripts
and I decided that some of them
were misread or miswritten.
They would talk about, say, you
know, a no carbohydrate diet,
which -- I'm a big believer
in whole plant foods,
and I didn't believe in zero
carbohydrates, and I thought
that would mislead people.
So junk in, junk out.
You have to program the
right information in.
So I went through my 35 years
of experience in psychology
and science and nutrition
and health and anti-aging,
and I went through
word for word,
and I corrected the scripts.
I revised them and updated them.
And where it said hypnosis,
I used relaxed focused
concentration.
>> Regina: Because
it scares people.
>> Delgado: It scares people.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: They don't -- they
attribute to stage hypnosis,
and the reality is when a
state hypnotist who's very good
at his trade has susceptible
or highly suggestible clients
on stage, the reality is the
best hypnotist in the world,
a hypnotherapist know,
that they choose clients
that are willing to pretend.
And I was first trained in --
with Dr. Tad James in hypnosis
and Christopher Morrison,
and also in timeline
therapy and NLP.
And the exciting thing
was that we paired
up with the other students.
And I said -- I asked
my professor.
I said, who's the
best in the room?
And he said, she is.
She's the best.
So I wanted to team
up with her because,
as we went through our
scripts and our practices,
I came up to her, and as I asked
the other students, I said,
what do you think about
going to a deep trance state?
And many of them would say,
well, I do it as a practice,
as a therapist, but I've
never been hypnotized
or in a deep trance.
And I look at them
and I go, well,
you're a practicing therapist.
And so, when I talked to
her, she said, oh, I love it.
And I said, what do
you love about it?
She said, well, imagine like
a child, how a child pretends.
If I tell you to stand up, just
imagine yourself standing up.
If I tell you float up into
the sky above the clouds,
above the stars,
imagine yourself.
Like Disney World,
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: And she
said, the imagination,
as Einstein once stated, is the
most powerful thing we have.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> Delgado: And she said, let
me tell you how I know it works,
and I'm all ears listening.
And she goes, I had to
have abdominal surgery
and I couldn't have anesthesia
because I'm allergic to it.
I would have died.
And I had to learn the
practice of self-relaxation
and deep trance phenomenon.
Beyond hypnosis.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And she said,
I underwent the surgery.
I didn't feel it.
I imagined I was in
a different place.
And now, I'm going to
teach you how to do it.
And I'm like, wow.
I was so excited.
And I continued.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: Every book I read,
every script, Milton Erickson,
the famous medical doctor.
>> Regina: Yes.
Right.
>> Delgado: And I studied and
found Bandler and Grinder.
Richard Bandler, very
curious, interesting fellow,
and he's got some
books he's written.
And I recommend that people
read as many different books
as possible if they want
to heighten their awareness
and be the very best they
can be in any work of life.
I download my books on Amazon
Kindle, and in the last year
and a half, I've listened
to no less than 172 books.
You're lucky to read 10 books
in one subject and you become
and expert on that subject.
That's been well documented.
Napoleon Hill was
one of the greats.
And in his new book
that just got released.
>> Regina:  Think
and Be Rich , yes.
>> Delgado: His new book,
Outwitting the Devil ,
that just got released.
>> Regina: Oh, yeah.
What is that about?
>> Delgado: You know, the book
was suppressed for over 75 years
because the family was concerned
if it had gotten released before
the family was still alive
that there would be some
concerns and criticisms.
Why? Because Napoleon
Hill went into great depth
of his true feelings
about religion, about sex,
about business, and life, and
he told it the way it really is.
I think he was so far
ahead of his time,
and I think partly
because, as you know,
the story with Napoleon Hill, he
interviewed the greatest minds
and the most successful
people of his time.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: Ford, Edison.
I mean, all the greats.
Taft and the presidents.
And he learned what
made them successful
and he just simply incorporated
their belief systems,
not their values,
but how they went
about accomplishing their goals.
And so, what we've discovered
is, and he made this clear
in his book  Outwitting the
Devil , he said specifically,
repetition of what's most
important to you, the focus
and repetition of that very
goal, will make you successful.
>> Regina: Yes.
I mean, it is that easy.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I mean,
for me, it comes in --
I'm more like the woman that you
talked about, and I've played
with a lot of hypnosis.
I love it.
I like going into
these altered states
and guiding others into it.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: But one of the
things I found is if I want
to create something new, a new
project, a new stage of life,
I spend a lot of
time daydreaming.
I call it daydreaming,
which is just driving,
maybe running errands, or
when I wake up and go to bed,
imagining how I want to feel
in this thing that I want to do
and I want to accomplish.
And it's a very visceral thing,
with people around laughing
and doing, you know,
accomplishing together.
It can be whatever -- depending
if it's a group effort.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: But the point is,
it's just very pleasurable
daydreaming
and it only takes
just a matter of time
and it does come into reality.
>> Delgado: Yes.
I think people can associate
with being in a move theater
and everything around
them disappears.
The theater, the big screen.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: And when
the Hulk's running
at them, they get scared.
Their heart goes up
and they get terrified,
because they're in the moment.
So with accessing
the unconscious mind,
the first rule is pretend
and make it believable...
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> Delgado: ...exciting
and real.
And then, as we incorporate
what it is we want,
be careful to be clear that
your goals will be representing
by what you program yourself.
So if you say, look,
I have a fat butt,
and you keep saying it,
I've always had a fat butt
and I can never get rid of
that rear end [laughter],
as Oprah would often
tell herself.
>> Regina: Not good.
>> Delgado: She'd say,
I just want to get
rid of this fat butt.
Well, the unconscious
mind skips I want
to get rid of, I just want.
>> Regina: They just
hear fat butt [laughter].
>> Delgado: I want the fat butt.
And she'd lose weight,
gain it, lose it, gain it.
And now, she's come into, you
know, some of these trainings,
and I know she's referring
people to Tony Robbins, who --
I worked with Tony Robbins very
closely at Mastery University,
because I was the health expert.
You know, anti-aging, health.
But I took advantage.
I mean, I got to go through
all the courses and programs,
then I went through all
the courses with Tad James
and Bandler, and I
just kept learning
because they wanted
to know what I know.
They wanted to know how
do I accomplish anti-aging
and health and wellness.
And I would teach
them in exchange.
I'd go through their
$10,000 or $20,000 courses
and gain all this
incredible knowledge.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You know, there's
a story that I'd like to relate
to you, and that is that
if you look at the laws
of supreme influence by Niurka,
and I've written about it
in her book, and you look
at Mark Victor Hansen
and  Chicken Soup
For the Soul ...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...who's
a good friend of mine,
and he's in my coaching
program, by the way.
Or you look at Jack Canfield
with Mark Victor Hansen;
their book on focus.
It's all about focus.
You focus on a goal and it
becomes your burning desire,
the most exciting thing for you.
>> Regina: It has to
have that excitement...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...and joy, I
find, or it doesn't happen.
>> Delgado: Correct.
>> Regina: Because then, it's
just a mental construct or...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...it's somebody
else's expectation of us.
>> Delgado: Someone
else's expectation.
It could be your mom, said
you should be a doctor.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You don't
want to be a doctor,
you want to be an artist.
>> Regina: Yeah.
You can sit and meditate on
that all day, but if the juices
in there -- it's
not going to happen.
>> Delgado: That's right.
>> Regina: At least, not well.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: That's right.
So when I'm going
after helping a client
to manifest their biggest
dreams and desires,
make it big, make it exciting.
>> Regina: Make it big.
Why not?
>> Delgado: And visualize
it, and here's the thing,
and I have to say this
about affirmations.
The problem is, they don't
always incorporate the correct
language patterns to
bypass critical thinking.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You see, you
might say, I'm successful.
I'm at a good body weight.
And you're thinking
to yourself, not true.
>> Regina: No.
Not really.
>> Delgado: Not really.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And you're
denying it.
Well, the reality is,
the scripts take you
through the proper
language sequences.
>> Regina: Yes, they do.
Yours are really well written.
>> Delgado: Thank you.
>> Regina: I just want
to compliment you.
>> Delgado: And you might
say to yourself, listen.
I want to accomplish this
goal of manifesting wealth.
I want to earn X dollars,
$1 million, $200,000,
whatever is your goal.
But somewhere along the way,
you don't have the
skillset to accomplish that.
So you're reading the scripts.
So what we implant
within the script is,
you will access the people who
have the knowledge to train you,
to help you, to guide you, to
bring you to mirror and match
and learn from those people.
And the verified [phonetic]
people you hang around with is,
there's been studies on
this, you're most likely
to manifest their net worth and
income and their success style.
If you hang around with
people who are unsuccessful,
they get -- they win the
lottery, they get $10 million,
and within how many years how
many lottery winners have lost
all that money?
>> Regina: Right.
Right.
>> Delgado: They didn't
know how to invest it,
they gave it away,
which was nice.
They gave it away, but
was it for a good cause?
Wouldn't it have been better
to invest it and manifest it
into something greater, to make
it better, and then continue
that wealth pattern, to be at
$200 million and at $10 million,
and then be able to spread
more wealth and health?
So I look at wealth
as not something
that sometimes certain
spiritual people look at
and go, oh, not for me.
Well, maybe not for them.
Maybe it's something
that they manifest
and they can contribute,
and contribution's
high on their list.
But what is your family?
Is it your value to be
the healthiest you can be,
the wealthiest, whether it be
in mind and spirit and in body,
and help your family to
be well and happy& I mean,
a lot of strife occurs
with divorces.
You know, one is out
there working non-stop
and the other one's saying,
"How come you're not
earning enough, honey?
We can't even fix the garbage
disposal, and, you know,
we don't have enough
food on the table.
And, you know, it's
tough times now."
>> Regina: People can complain
all they want about money
and the evils of the way
the system works, which --
I'll be the first
in line to complain
about the way this
systems is constructed.
But within that system, you can
still manage the flow of events
and sustenance and money and so
forth so that it can still work
for you, even in these
very difficult times.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I think that's
something that's really
important for people to know.
Yeah. Times are tough.
Maybe it's not so easy
to go down and get
that exact job you want,
and because maybe 100
other people instead
of 10 other people want it.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: But you can still
create that kind of edge
for yourself through your own
enthusiasm, and as you say,
these -- this scripting,
this change of subconscious
belief, absolutely.
It's not a dead end.
>> Delgado: Eckart Tolle once
said that enthusiasm and joy...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...is one
of the keys to success,
but he added the
work acceptance.
And you know why
he said acceptance?
>> Regina: Mm-mm.
>> Delgado: He said, listen.
Sometimes along the way,
you've got to do a chore...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...that you
can't get anyone else to do.
And you -- make.
>> Regina: Got to pay
your dues sometimes.
>> Delgado: And make
it your best effort.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: Accept it.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: Be the
best shoe shiner.
Be the best window washer.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
Be the best waiter
if you got to go do
that for a while. Be the best.
>> Delgado: Isn't it fun
when you're around someone
who might be in the
service profession
and they're telling you jokes.
I mean, I was in the
airport line coming through
and the security guard,
he was telling jokes.
He was -- it was
entertaining to listen to him.
Like, he's really
got a good attitude.
>> Regina: It is.
And, you know, there are
situations we all fall into,
especially -- well, in my field,
which is media, which is...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...part of --
the field of entertainment,
whether you're a
journalist or not.
That's not an easy profession...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...in that
is always up and down
and it's never secure.
And I had a situation one
time where I was between jobs.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I had been an
anchor at a station...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...and
they downsized.
I was gone.
I was doing -- actually, it was
called the envi-report
on the main -- nightly news,
and waiting for funding
on a documentary.
So I went to work at a cafe
that was down the street
from that very station.
My friend owned the cafe
and he wouldn't hire me.
I said, "Please hire me.
I need to get out of the
house and see people."
He did, and I loved that job.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: I made
so many friends.
I made wonderful
friends from that.
It was a very kind of
nurturing period of time
in life, and I value that job.
Basically making coffee
drinks behind the counter.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: But what happened,
when my former news anchors,
co-anchors, came in for
lunch and they saw me there,
there was this dread,
this humiliation.
Oh my God.
What if that happened to me?
You know?
>> Delgado: Mm-hmm.
>> Regina: And there
is this judgment
that goes with all of it...
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: ...when, in
fact, I consider that --
it was a wonderful little
period of life before I got
on with making my
next documentary.
It was wonderful.
>> Delgado: You know,
Regina, there's stories
of Hollywood stars, and I think
-- my favorite is Jim Carrey.
And he wrote a little
letter and he sealed it.
And the letter was, "One day,
I'm going to take a movie part
and write myself a
$10 million check."
>> Regina: I remember
that [laughter].
>> Delgado: And, you know,
he was waiting on tables
and taking, you know,
miscellaneous jobs.
And one day, he wrote
himself that check.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: He kept that
dream alive and he knew
that somehow he had to
perfect his speaking skills,
his acting skills.
He had to make humor.
And, you know, life
has what you draw.
And there's a vibrational energy
that you and I know about.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> Delgado: And that vibrational
energy may attract me being
on the show.
And I'm like, friends
knew who I was.
They heard me speaking at
an event and they said,
"You've got to get
on this talk show."
I didn't even know about it.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And then, the next
thing I knew producer's calling
me and here I am.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: You manifest.
And who knows how many lives I
will touch and you will touch
by somehow giving
them hope, faith,
confidence, and self-esteem.
You see, whatever you
value, all of us can benefit
from those high-level,
high-vibrational
purpose-driven factors.
Because you see, two people can
go for a job, and you might go
for a job that pays the
bills, and that's okay.
But meanwhile, you're
working on another project
that you're really
passionate about.
Do that job good,
but eventually,
get yourself into that purpose.
>> Regina: Don't forget
that dream; that's the key.
>> Delgado: That dream.
>> Regina: Don't give
up on that dream.
Absolutely.
Okay. Well, we're on the
same page on all of this.
And I want to talk about
this eyes open relaxation,
because it's a little
different form...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...of
self-hypnosis than most.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Normally,
we see ourselves going
inside and closing the eyes.
So tell us what this
means first.
And then, I'm going to have
you do a demonstration.
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: And I'm going
to invite everybody
in the audience watching
this to go along with it
and see how effective this is
in a very short space of time.
>> Delgado: You know,
people need to recognize
that you can have your eyes open
and be manifesting your
goals and your dreams.
The key is, if you're
a person who prefers
to have your eyes closed during
the scripts, then go ahead
and read the scripts
into your iPhone
or your Android and
play it back.
And then, if it's a lot of
distractions, in our profession,
we learn with the distractions.
We state to our self.
You heard the clanking
of the chair
or you hear the background
cans rocking.
That allows me to go a deeper
state of relaxation and focus.
The key is just keeping your
mind on focus and on track.
So I'm okay whether
people allow themselves
to have their eyes open while
they read the scripts, which --
the biggest problem that I see
in hypnosis and/or timeline
therapy, or any of these fields
of psychoanalysis, the
reality is that if you go
into a very deep state
of trance, and you
and I are really good at that.
We love it because it's a
beautiful state to be in.
It's a very manifestable --
something we can
accomplish incredible things
with our dreams and
make it reality.
But the problem is, if
you go in really deep,
my clients sometimes
fall asleep.
And if they're asleep,
there might be some
subliminal suggestion,
but that's not too
easy to prove.
>> Regina: No.
You have to stay at
that level where...
>> Delgado: You have to stay.
>> Regina: ...
theta, alpha around
that border there.
Yeah..
>> Delgado: So while I'm taking
my clients through the process,
I'm watching them closely.
I'm watching their breathiness.
Okay. They're in a deep state,
but I'll even tell them ahead,
during the course,
I'm going to ask you
to periodically open your
eyes and close your eyes
so I know you're listening
and you're paying attention.
The worst is, I'm going through
a script and they're so relaxed,
the next thing they're
[snoring].
And I, like, open your eyes so
you can absorb the information.
And they're still
going [snoring].
They're not listening
to a word I'm saying.
>> Regina: No.
No.
>> Delgado: So we've discovered
that the eyes open
laser focus is the best,
because in most cases,
it's keeping them
focused on the script.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And after
six sessions,
they are going to manifest.
And they can be in
a light trance,
a deep trance, a
moderate trance.
It doesn't matter where
you think you are,
where you know the scripts work,
my laser focused
concentration scripts work,
is you start manifesting
the behavior.
>> Regina: Right.
Right.
>> Delgado: The best example
is I have people who --
I have a lady who started my
program about four months ago.
And she said, you know,
I know this information.
I go to these events
all the time.
Power of the mind,
healthy diet, exercise.
But I don't do it.
I don't know why I don't do it.
I just don't do it.
I don't have the willpower.
I can't bring myself to do it.
And I gave her the scripts.
I said, just read them.
Trust the scripts.
Don't critically think.
Don't say, I don't know
if it's working or not.
Just read them and trust it
with enthusiasm, and read them.
When you read them into your
phone, read them with enthusiasm
and excitement as
if it's happening.
Pretend it's happening
and it will.
And she said, "I trust you.
I know you've accomplished
amazing goals in your life.
You've broken world records
against guys half your age.
You're still competing.
You're."
>> Regina: And twice your size.
>> Delgado: You're
-- twice my size.
Not -- and guys over
the age of 50.
I'm going against an
all classic in a month.
>> Regina: Strength
endurance competitions.
>> Delgado: Against the world's
strongest strength endurance
athletes and they're
going to look at me,
like they've had in the past.
Now, they know who I am.
But they'll say, oh, you're
here to watch your son compete,
who's, you know,
5'10", 240 pounds.
I said, no.
All 5'8" of me and 170 pounds
and, you know, a year from 60.
I'm here to compete
and beat you.
And they look at
me and they laugh.
>> Regina: [Laughter].
>> Delgado: They laugh.
They say, that's funny.
That's really funny.
And then, I beat them...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: ...with 45 pound
dumbbells lifting overhead,
and I broke the world
record for curls as well.
And they -- after they see me
do it, beat them, they go, "Wow.
How did you do it?"
>> Regina: They say, where
are those scripts again?
>> Delgado: Yeah.
What are those scripts?
How did you condition your mind?
How did you manifest the
discipline to workout daily
and have a family of five and
to travel and to have companies
that you work with and on TV
appearances and write books?
I mean, you've written 10 books.
How do you do it all?
>> Regina: And in addition,
you've had your share
of difficulty and
tragedy and challenge.
>> Delgado: I've had challenges.
>> Regina: I mean,
you were telling me...
>> Delgado: I've had challenges.
>> Regina: ...off
camera, that was one
of the most heartbreaking
things I've ever heard.
>> Delgado: I've had
family tragedies,
and my father passed
on just last month.
And, you know, for 15 years,
my father, with good intention,
you know, he was a truck driver
and he owned a restaurant
tavern, and his wife, you know,
they trusted the doctors.
And the doctors kept
him on a diet
that they said was
appropriate for his diabetes.
They kept him on
diabetic medications
and heart medications, and
Flomax for his prostrate.
And he wasn't even himself.
I would talk to him and
he'd forget who I was.
>> Regina: Wasn't himself.
>> Delgado: He was a shell,
like he wasn't even existing.
And finally, he had
another incident.
I'm sorry to say.
It was a tragic incident,
but he survived it,
and then his wife finally said,
and the family said,
please intervene.
I know you can do it.
I don't know what will
happen, but let's try.
They'd all given up.
The doctors had given up on him.
And I said, "I'm not
going to give up."
And we started revamping
his diet.
We started giving
him whole super foods
and taking him off all
the sugars and the fats
and the meats and the cheeses
that was supposedly
good for diabetes.
And the wife said, "This
is the exact opposite
of what they tell
diabetics to eat."
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: But I
gave her the scripts.
We hooked him up to a
neuromuscular stimulator
to strengthen his muscles
with a Tesla device.
I put him on all natural
bioidentical hormones.
I had him on herbs.
He started functioning again.
He was laughing, telling jokes.
He was off his medications.
And for four precious
months, he was with us.
He ended up with
another incident.
I believe an aneurysm blew
out from all the years...
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: ...80 years of life
that weakened blood vessels
from years of, you know.
>> Regina: But he had some
wonderful final moments.
>> Delgado: But he
had some wonderful --
and I was there for
him, for my father.
And I only wish that
more people --
if not starting early,
start now.
It's never too late.
As long as you have
a mental capability,
and even if you don't, hopefully
a love one's hearing this show
and will intervene and help.
But the reality is that
manifesting your dreams
and your goals starts
on a day-to-day basis,
reading these scripts, and
letting the focused relaxation
in a deep, natural voice,
a soothing voice
that's enthusiastic.
And as you read through, it'll
bypass critical thinking,
and particularly if
it's in your own voice,
your brain will go, okay.
After about six readings,
initially you might go, oh.
I'm not sure about,
you know, what he's --
what I'm saying to myself.
And after a while, instead of
these old voices telling you --
and by the way, Deepak
Chopra once said
that we have 60,000
thoughts a day,
and of which over
half are negative.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: So we have to
reprogram to be in the state,
to be resourceful, to
manifest that new job,
to attract that new client,
to be the best on television
and interviews, to
break a world record,
and to be the best you can be
and lose that last 20 pounds
of body fat, or overcome
a chronic disease.
Whatever it is, never
believe that it can't be done.
Believe in the faith of energy
and healing and well-being
and the power of the
infinite wisdom of your brain
and the cells of your body
that we're even here
today communicating
and the energy we're sending now
out to the world is
affecting millions of people.
And I -- that is my goal.
>> Regina: Yeah.
Because there is this
knocked on effect, always.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And, you know, the
nice thing about the scripts,
as you were saying, is you
-- the first six times.
But through repetition,
it starts bypassing
the critical thinking.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: It just becomes a
familiar background message
in life.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And that's when it
really starts taking effect.
>> Delgado: I've
had my clients --
as I mentioned, the one who said
she didn't have the willpower,
she said, "You know, I couldn't
bring myself to eat healthy.
I'd go back to the shopping
mall and I'd see the chocolates.
I'd just eat it impulsively.
I'd see the hot dog
stand and I'd eat it
because it was quick
and convenient.
I'd get junk food for my kids
because it was convenient
and I was conditioned,
through society,
that that was acceptable
behavior."
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: And she
looked at that
and she started listening
to the scripts.
And then, after a while
-- her husband's a dentist
and really, really well to do.
She came back two months later.
She had dropped 15 pounds.
She looked me in the
eye and she said,
"I've been using the scripts
and I'm following the program."
And she said, "I'm doing it
with enthusiasm and excitement.
And some of the scripts are
telling me to do certain things
that -- I would have never
thought I would exercise
consistently or eat healthy or
treat other people in a manner.
"I just feel like
this huge weight
of baggage has been
taken off my shoulders
and now I know I can do
anything I want in life."
>> Regina: Isn't that amazing?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And like you said, it
doesn't matter if you're 20, 30,
40, 50, 60, or 70, it's
never too late to begin.
You can always start
shifting the focus
over to the positive
again; right?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: So -- okay.
Now, what I'd like to do
is -- I chose a script.
This one is called...
>> Delgado: Okay.
>> Regina: ..."Increased
Energy."
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And -- well,
I mean, I don't want
to take a really long time...
>> Delgado: I'll make it
brief and to the point.
>> Regina: ...but just the very
beginning relaxation point.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Can you show
us what that feels like?
>> Delgado: Yes.
And by the way, as you get good
with the initial induction,
which we call induction
to access the deepest...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...state of
relaxation and unconscious mind,
keep in mind that the best
induction is the most rapid.
So.
>> Regina: I was
going to say, yeah.
Absolutely.
>> Delgado: So don't
worry about taking --
initially, it might
take a little longer,
read through the whole script.
But after a while, just get down
to the key words that allow you
to relax quickly
and effortlessly.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: To the point where
I bet -- you're so good, Regina,
I bet if I said,
Regina, relax your body.
On a count of 100 to 99,
you're now 10 times more
relaxed than you were before.
>> Regina: Yeah.
I'm going to try to stay
with you, because I go
down there easily.
>> Delgado: And then, I'll
say, relax your mind, Regina.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: All those
thoughts, relax them.
100, 99, and with
each number, 98,
you're now 10 times more
relaxed than you were before.
In fact, you're so relaxed,
you're out on the beach
and it's warm and beautiful
and you're now a million
times more relaxed.
You're accessing the
infinite knowledge and wisdom
of all the planetary energy,
and all of wisdom is now ready
to pour into your body.
And as you float up above
the clouds, above the stars,
you let go of all those negative
feelings of anger and hurt.
And in the top, through the
top of your head, the love
and energy floats
throughout your entire body.
And in this state,
you're now ready
to access this incredibly
feeling
of I have more energy,
enthusiasm.
I enjoy each aspect
of my life more.
As my energy and enthusiasm
increases greatly, day by day,
I'm able to feel more alive
and become more excited
now about whatever I do.
I want to live life
to the fullest
and get more satisfaction
with every activity.
Having more energy now
will help me to do this.
I have more fun.
When I feel more energy, I
choose to feel more health
and vibrancy As my
energy increases,
my sense of vitality
dramatically increases now,
has become excited and
enthusiastic about my life.
So each of these scripts imbeds
these wonderful statements.
>> Regina: They're very juicy.
They all have the
power of joy in them.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And that is
the critical factor.
>> Delgado: Joy, love, energy.
If there is more
love in the world,
if we could accept each
other for what they are.
Everyone's different.
No one has to be
exactly like us.
I have a script that helped
me to deal with my teenagers.
I have five children.
And, you know, sometimes they
don't make the best decisions,
in my opinion.
But maybe for them, it's okay.
One of my favorite books
by Wayne Dyer, you know,
What We've Always Wanted For
Our Children , and I listened
to it on Kindle several times.
It took me several because I
had to really emergent in some
of these -- I don't know
if I can accept that one.
But, you know, after a while,
acceptance, enthusiasm, and joy,
these scripts will
change your life.
They'll help you lose
weight, increase your energy,
make more money,
have better sex.
It's all in the scripts and
in your mind, in acceptance.
>> Regina: Because that's the
only thing standing in the way
of us and anything
that we desire anyway.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And in the end,
it's always our own
subconscious programming.
One of the things -- you talked
-- and I just want to go back
and hit on it, because...
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: ...some people
don't know what it is.
Could you talk a
little bit about your --
you do timeline therapy.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: What is
timeline therapy?
>> Delgado: Timeline therapy
is a higher level of NLP,
neural linguistic programming,
deep trance phenomena,
and accessing the fact that
we all organize our mind
and our thoughts and our lives
and every experience
we've ever had.
There's a slow recorder that
start from the day we were born,
possibly even before we were
born, and whether we believe
in past lives or not, we
ask people this question.
Was that first incident
of anger that occurred,
and due to gestalt and
psychology, when anger occurs,
it's triggered by something and
maybe someone yelled at your
or spanked you or
hurt you or abused
or raped you or something.
But every time in your life,
from the beginning to the end,
there's these gestalts, or
triggers, and it gets magnified.
And so, what -- maybe
someone says something simple
that doesn't even seem --
like, why would you fly off
the handle and get angry?
It was a trigger in your
mind and someone touched you
when someone died and it was so
hurtful and you started to cry
and you don't know why.
So the mind and the body is
constantly filtering millions
of bits of information, but can
only take about eight or so bits
of information in at a time.
So in timeline therapy, we
use this ingenious technique
where we take people through
the five emotions of hurt,
unresourceful anger, fear,
guilt, sadness, and worry.
And we take people back
into their timeline
where the first incident
occurred...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...and
we release it.
And now, we put in empowering
-- and I don't let the client --
I don't tell the client
what the empowering word is.
I say, "Tell me what the
opposite of sadness is for you,
or what the opposite
of hurt is."
And they tell me, whether,
you know, whether it's --
confidence is the
opposite of fear;
whatever words they choose.
So then, as we go through
the induction process,
and as we float back into the
past, and if they're not willing
to let it go, don't get
caught in the incident'.
Like, you know, it was a fight
scene and someone hurt you.
I tell people, go one
day before it occurred
so it never occurred,
but you're seeing it.
>> Regina: So when you change
that scenario in the timeline...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...from
the first time...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...what
is, then, the effect?
>> Delgado: Unbelievable.
Because as I tell people to
release that first incident
when -- in the womb or as a
child or as a young adult,
and then I use the words and
every incident thereafter
that may trigger a similar
or probable condition
or has ever happened to you,
you're now prepared to release
that anger now and forever.
But you'll retain the
learnings of which,
in case some similar situation
where someone's attacked you,
you're resourceful, but
you're more resourceful now
because you're not engaged with
this unresourceful emotion,
such as anger or fear or
guilt or sadness or jealousy.
So when you do this, now you
have resourceful emotions
and it's ongoing and
-- it's not permanent.
It's like cleaning house.
You do it.
You clear up some things,
and then some new
challenges come up.
Maybe come see a good
timeline therapist or read some
of my books or tapes or
videos and reengage it
and you'll rerelease it and
you'll -- just like the scripts.
If you find yourself falling off
after you've gotten
great results,
make sure you read
the scripts again,
and choose which scripts fall
into your category you want.
Because I have over 60
scripts right now online
that are available.
And then, in our
coaching program,
more advanced scripts
are available as well.
So people can do this by
accessing the unconscious mind
at the root cause at which
these conditions occur,
which then liberates the body
emotionally and physically.
And there's no value in hanging
onto guilt or worry or hate.
>> Regina: No value.
>> Delgado: No value.
>> Regina: Okay.
So I want to talk about
some of the scripts.
I mean, we -- I chose that one
because increasing energy
is something that...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...at one time or
another,
almost every human being wants
to do.
>> Delgado: I read only
half of the script.
>> Regina: Yeah.
It was just a little bit.
>> Delgado: But there's
some more exciting stuff.
>> Regina: But you get
a feel for the flavor...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...of it.
And also, I didn't want to go
into a hypnotic state while
I had to do my job here.
So let's talk about
the inspiration
for some of these scripts.
Because one of them I chose
was -- it was interesting.
It's really big, even though
it looks like it might not be.
And that is stop
gossiping and complaining.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Let's talk about you
have noticed with your clients.
Just the traits of gossiping and
complaining, what that is doing
to the quality of
that person's life.
>> Delgado: Think about someone
who is either close to you
or a family member,
and we've just grown
to accept their gossip,
their complaining,
and worse, their blaming.
You see, the moment you blame
someone else for your problems,
you're no longer in control of
that emotion or your actions,
and you've given permission to
just continue that behavior.
So I consider gossip,
complaining,
and blaming in a
similar category.
There's an other script for
blaming, but within the script,
it's mentioned as this is
an unresourceful emotion
and in it's place,
I'm going to look
for the most positive
attributes of that person.
I'm going to think about,
even though I'm challenged
with this person right now,
I'm going to let it go.
I'm going to smile and take
a breath and let it go.
And every morning, what I tell
people, when you're taking
that shower, as the water
touches your body, I'm cleansing
and releasing myself of
the tendency to gossip
and blame and complain.
And as I cleanse my body, I'm
fully engaged with the harmony
of the planet and
with other people.
And even though they may
be different than me,
I grow to accept them and
love them, and maybe not spend
as much time with them, because
maybe they're triggering too
many things for you, but I'm
now in a resourceful state.
>> Regina: And there's
no resonance.
It might just be there's no
resonance with that person.
>> Delgado: That's right.
>> Regina: You don't need
to hang out with them.
>> Delgado: You don't need to.
>> Regina: And also, the whole
notion about blaming and then,
basically shifting
responsibility
for whatever's occurred in
your life to another person,
is it's dangling out there as
a very chaotic field with...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...and
a very unreliable
and probably negative outcome.
>> Delgado: Right.
Right.
>> Regina: You know?
>> Delgado: It's
tough, because it's --
we as humans, even with
the infinite knowledge
that we can access, it's
something that in a moment
of weakness, it's probably
easier for us to say, well,
I can blame the government
or society or my boss
or my girlfriend or
my husband or my kids.
But where's your responsibility?
At some point, you come to terms
with if I take full
responsibility.
I remember in our classes
in timeline therapy,
the professor was challenged
and we asked, Dr. James,
how can you take responsibility
for someone rear ending
me in an accident?
I can't possibly
have controlled that.
Wait a minute.
What did you bring about?
Was there something
leading up to --
just prior to that accident?
You weren't being
an aware driver.
You weren't looking in
the rearview mirror.
You weren't paying
attention to the traffic.
Something was going on in your
life that you did manifest.
Stop blaming every
incident and condition
and situation, every incident.
The moment you take
responsibility,
you can improve upon
that situation.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
It's so much more empowering.
Now, another one you talk
about in here is having
faith in the divine.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Now, a lot of people
that are watching this show are
comfortable with that notion.
But on the other hand,
have a fear that they're still
alone somehow in this universe.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And bridging that gap
to understand not only
you're not alone --
if you could even see what's
interpenetrating this space,
you'd probably have a being
sitting right on you [laughter],
and helpful ones at that.
>> Delgado: Right.
Right.
>> Regina: To say, yeah.
To say nothing of these divine
imprints you're talking about.
Talk about that a little bit.
>> Delgado: I think --
you look at the salmon
and how they swim up stream.
And you look at butterflies, how
they return to certain places
that no one could have
ever told them where to go.
There's some infinite knowledge
and wisdom within every cell
in every animal and
human and plant.
That's going a little far, Nick,
plants, but, you know.
>> Regina: You know, I agree.
I mean, that's been proven.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
So there's maybe...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: ...there's maybe
seasonal things going on,
and the moon changes, and
the Earth and the spin.
But the reality is that there
is something that we have
to agree is infinite wisdom.
And I'm not so -- such a person
that would ignore eclectic.
You know, there could be room
for every type of
religious belief.
It may be that there's
something that we all,
in the moment of being one.
And by the way, being one occurs
in certain times of our life.
Some people feel it's
highly spiritual in a moment
of intimacy and love and sex.
Some people feel when they're
eating a tasty strawberry,
that moment of gustatory
and the smell and the taste
and they're in that moment.
So whatever it is
about living now
and in the moment might help
you to get more in touch
with being the vibrant and alive
and the infinite
person that you are.
I think that no one can explain
now, or will ever be able to,
what transitions when
our time has come.
But I do believe, as some people
have experienced the other side
and/or have been present in
people who have transitioned,
there's something going on that
ties us all spiritually back
and into one.
So whether you believe it or
not, these scripts are helpful.
They help us to be
more present and alive
and enjoy our lives now
and not say, well, look.
Some day, when I go
to that other side,
my life will be better.
Why would you do that?
>> Regina: I hear this a lot,
especially among my friends
who are spiritually
oriented, which is, you know,
I've had it with this planet.
I've had it.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: I'm ready to
move on to the other side.
And I'm always saying, "And
what will you do there?"
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: What are you going
to do when you get there?
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: I think
people don't --
unless you've made it a study,
there's some beautiful work
on this by Dr. Amit Goswami,
by the way, one of his books
on the physics of the soul.
It gets for people who
need the empirical --
not just empirical evidence,
but also scientific evidence...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...it really
brings it together
in understanding there really
is not an escape per se.
The best we can do is
the best wherever we are,
whether we're here or
we've left the body
and we're refreshing ourselves
for whatever, whether it's
to come back, depending
on your belief system.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: And he is saying --
one thing that was really
interesting to me about that,
is that when you're out of this
field and this physical reality,
which is here for learning,
accomplishing, doing,
and so forth, you're in a
field of simple potential
that doesn't have the
ability to create the outcomes
in the same way that we
have right here; now.
This is where the fast
track learning is.
>> Delgado: Yes.
Part of laser-focused
concentration is being
in the now and in the moment.
And as you read the
scripts, you'll begin
to find yourself manifesting
your dreams into reality.
And I think that whether you
accomplish the loftiest goal is
not what it's about.
It's not, "I have a better car
than you" or "I have more money
than you", it's how at peace
are you with your spirit,
and how you are with the
universe and your kids
and your family, and how
many lives can you touch,
that inspired them to
be their very best?
As a teacher and a
mentor, and as an orator,
I love to use the words
charismatic, enthusiasm,
and joy before I ever
step on set or on stage,
because there's things
that can pull me down.
There's thoughts and challenges
and, you know, just before I go
on stage, oh, someone ran
into your car and,
you know, da da da.
And someone stole
something from your house.
And I'm there for those people.
I'm there and present.
The more people learn to become
present, and there's a script
for this, in the
presence of that person,
and paying attention,
not on their cellphone
and texting and this and that.
It's one thing that maybe
you're texting to --
because you're en route
and you're going to be late
for a meeting and
you're talking.
You explain to them, listen, I'm
making sure we're going to be
on time for this meeting.
I'm letting them know.
We got the make the plane
and the car has to show up.
But be present.
Look them in eyes, or in
their culture, maybe you have
to look away a little
bit at times.
Maybe they're feeling, they're
kinesthetic, or they're visual.
Learn their love
language as well.
Learn what it takes
to communicate
with that other person.
Because otherwise,
you'll say, "I love you."
"Well, he never holds me.
He never hugs me.
He says he loves me."
And she -- for him, it's I
need to hear it and she needs
to be held, or vice-versa.
I want a gift.
I want you to clean up.
I want you to look sharp.
You know, visual, and
talk, and make it exciting.
So we all have languages
that we can speak better
to our teenagers, better to our
kids, better to our teachers
and our mentors, and better
to those we want to inspire.
>> Regina: You just
mentioned kids.
And it's not kids.
It's us, too, now.
I mean, I see senior citizens
texting while they're driving.
The thing is, we're
in this cyber society.
The very thing you just talked
about, because you're talking
about presence, you're talking
about awareness of others
and your surroundings.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Connection.
>> Regina: We'll talk about
some of the other scripts
on connection in a minute.
But how does this all factor
in with a cyber society?
Other than that you can put that
on your iPhone or your Android
and listen to these scripts,
how does that figure into all
of this when we're
so not present?
>> Delgado: You know, I
learned a long time ago
that if I was going to
communicate with my kids better,
or significant other, I had
to learn what was their
desired form of connection.
Maybe for them, a text
initially was appropriate.
But there's something
about the human voice...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...that transmits
something very important.
So maybe just --
for them, you Skype.
Maybe they want the visual.
Maybe they don't.
Maybe they just want to
be on the phone with you.
Don't depend on long texts and
creating all this, you know.
Say, look.
I'll be there.
I'm late. I'm a half hour,
but wait till I get there.
En route, you can talk
to them on the phone.
Or maybe you can
when you get there.
You're eye-to-eye, or if you
can't be eye-to-eye, you know,
use Skype or use Google
Chat or something.
There's all these
marvelous things
that cyberspace now offers,
but learn how to be present
with those other people.
I mean, I've seen these Google
Chat things where people are,
you know, they're
looking and talking
to each other right in the eye.
I'm like, wow.
It seems like they're
present, and they can be.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And that's okay.
So make sure.
>> Regina: I'm not talking about
the bumping around, you know,
teenagers that are
texting each other
when they're standing
next to each other.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: There's this
humanistic disconnect
that is going on.
>> Delgado: Yes.
Yes. Yeah.
Love is a very special thing.
And intimacy and love and
caring is something that --
I think that it starts
with every person.
And every person that
learns to bring joy and love
into their life, and not
this mushy thing where --
and all the stress and, you
know, your garage is burning
down and you're ignoring it.
You're sitting there meditating.
You got to take action.
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: You've got --
stress is good, actually.
I have to say this.
Because you know what?
The most successful people
in history have endured
massive amounts
of stress, but they adjusted.
They either endured or made
new changes in their life.
And maybe that's what it took.
It reached this boiling point
before they can even get
themselves to change.
Don't wait for that.
Start changing now, by
one person at a time,
one situation at a time.
Start with yourself, though.
>> Regina: Right.
Right.
>> Delgado: Don't -- stop
complaining about everyone else.
>> Regina: Well -- and there's
another element to this, too.
A number of years ago, I
interviewed Dr. John Demartini
and one -- that conversation was
about the hierarchy of values.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: Because you
have all these, I mean,
these are wonderful scripts,
and they're made really
available, which I love.
But if you're lying to yourself
about your own system of values,
they're still not really
going to work for you.
If you're saying, I want a --
you mentioned this in the
beginning of the show.
I want to make $250,000 a
year, and right now you --
maybe you have very
limited skills.
And in reality, what you
really want is to be there
for your kids or
your grandkids, say.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: If you're a woman.
>> Regina: But you're tired
of being broke, so it's like,
I'm doing this script on money.
And so -- and it's not
that it's not appropriate,
but what happens when you don't
acknowledge your genuine values,
the -- in your -- because you've
got a lot of scripts there.
So let's talk about how you
pair up values with scripts.
>> Delgado: Yes.
Ben Franklin was a
master at knowing how
to utilize every
minute of his life.
And he would write
out, and this is good;
journaling, writing out.
What are your highest
goals and dreams?
And then, manifest them is
what we're talking about.
So I think one of the challenges
that people have today is
they think that, you know,
in a goal-driven society, if
they don't get that special job
or that, you know, that, you
know, situation or that income,
that they've somehow failed.
No. They haven't.
What they haven't done is
they haven't accessed the
right people.
They haven't put themselves in
the work demand or situation.
They haven't brought themselves
to a higher order of capability.
So each person, to be the very
best employee or president
or manager, has to be that
person that is absolutely --
has a skill set that
matches everything
that they know they can do.
So values, you're
absolutely right.
It might couples in conflict.
They're going, look.
I need security, but we're going
to go for a three-week vacation.
Well, during that three-week
vacation, I'm not earning money
and what am I going to do?
>> Regina: And you're worried
about money during
the three weeks.
>> Delgado: And you're
worried about it.
I'm going to Brazil with my kids
for three weeks starting
December 31st.
Literally going.
And I look forward
to it, and trust me,
like Zig Ziglar once
said, trust me.
Since in a week and a half, I'm
going to be gone and away from,
you know, managing and
phones and this and that.
I'm going to do everything I
can in the next week and a half
and get it done so I'm away
and enjoying my vacation
so I'm present.
So really, as Zig once
said, pretend you're going
to Acapulco tomorrow and
you've got to get everything
in your life in order
and ready and done.
And so, each day is at a
very fast pace, rapid pace,
but congenial and
happy and enthusiastic
so that every day is an
opportunity to go on vacation.
>> Regina: That's -- you've
mentioned this a couple
of times, surrounding yourself
with these five people.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Go into
that a little bit more.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: We still
have a few minutes left.
Go into that a little bit more.
That's a difficult one.
We have the people that
we've collected and gathered
around us in our lives.
Some of them are for comfort.
Many of them may not have very
functional lives themselves,
say.
But there's a heart
connection there.
Talk about this dynamic
and where it almost seems
like it's opportunistic
or self-serving,
especially to women,
to say, well,
I can't just leave my girlfriend
behind and my girlfriends behind
and go find these other people
that have more to offer me.
Can you speak to that?
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Because there's
judgment about that.
>> Delgado: I'm thrilled because
nearly every week I'm either
going to a meet up group
that's pertinent to my goals
and values and dreams.
I'm hooking up and
learning and meeting people
that either aspire to or
they're better than me
in their particular field.
Right now, I'm attending a
lot of marketing meetings
and education and Internet
and cyberspace meetings.
And there's always
someone out there
that has something special.
And, you know, if you just
treat them with love and respect
and say, look, I really
respect what you're doing,
if you just share with me how
you've become so successful.
And people that just, for some
reason, out of the deepest
of their heart, they're excited.
They rarely get that
questioned asked.
Some of the most
successful people
around I know are earning
$40,000, $60,000 a month
and I'm like, "How
did you do it?"
And they tell me
and I'm surprised
at how few people
ask them sincerely.
Because they'll listen and
they'll kind of roll their eyes.
I can't do that,
I can't do that.
What do you mean
you can't do that?
Surround yourself with people,
even if they're above
your level now.
Maybe they're fitter
than you are.
They're eating healthier
They're more successful than you
are in how you define success.
Some of it's not only going
to rub off, but you're going
to then bring yourself up to
a higher vibrational level.
Maybe you'll tell your friend
that you wanted to come,
but she wasn't ready yet.
Something in her
life wasn't ready.
So tell your girlfriend, hey.
I already benefited this,
and let me tell you why.
And it wasn't about you and I.
It was about me trying
to manifest and be
who I am to be my best.
Take care of yourself first.
You can't -- you got to put
the little gas mask thing on,
you know, in the
plane, you know...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: ...to
take care of --
so take care of yourself first.
That's what these
scripts are about.
Focus on your goals,
your dreams, your values.
Not what you think everyone
thinks you should accomplish.
And as you start finding
yourself taking action
and doing the steps, then
you're going to start thinking
about all the other
people you can help.
And then, your friendships will
improve, and whether they do
or not, some people
aren't ready.
>> Regina: You bet.
I mean, the thing is, when
you get out of that grumbling
and grousing mode, there are
people that will drop away
from your life because that's
their connection with you.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: Right?
So you have to be willing.
>> Delgado: You're
enabling each other.
>> Regina: You're
You have to be ready to let go
of some very familiar
faces that you love.
>> Delgado: For a while,
or forever, or not; right?
>> Regina: Right.
And one of the areas you talked
about, you were just talking
about someone and
their girlfriend,
is you talk a lot
about intimacy.
You also talk about functioning.
Now, you have a lot of
information on your site
in terms of sexual health...
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: ...and function.
Let's just talk a
little bit about that
because before we sign off here
in about five minutes or so...
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: ...that is an
area where people are having
so many troubles
with each other.
It's like, men and women aren't
talking to each with clarity,
or they're understanding each
other even less right now.
It seems like it's a battlefield
between the sexes
out there right now.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
>> Regina: And you have scripts
to address that, by the way.
>> Delgado: Absolutely.
You know, I've been
on sex panels
and a love relationship
panel with John Gray
and some luminary people.
I mean, I've been good
friends with these people.
And I come across in
a few different ways.
One is, the biochemical proof
is that men reach a hot point
and get excited quickly,
within two minutes,
and they literally can, you
know, can come to this state
of excitement, where
a woman need nurturing
and love and acceptance.
And there's a whole cycle that's
about 20 minutes
to an hour behind.
In fact, it actually
begins early in the day;
sending little love messages.
Maybe you can send her a little
voice message and something.
But whatever it is, it's
getting here and you
in the same vibrational
state so that as you learn
to please your woman first,
and this is what my message was
to the medical doctors last
week, and it'll be uploaded soon
on our website, the actual talk.
Because it took me three hours
to explain to the doctors
that we as a society
have conditioned, due to,
I will say very bluntly,
porn and things
where men do these
things, and they think
that the woman's
being stimulated.
And the reality is,
Kinsey report,
where they analyze 900 women,
gynecologists, there's little
or not nerve endings deep
into, if you will, the vagina,
and yet, 15,000 nerve
connections
and 8,000 pleasures nerves are
directly in a different area,
more on the surface,
of the female anatomy.
And men miss this.
They don't get it.
They don't know.
And then, the woman has to fake
and then the fake continues
in the relationship and
women are unsatiated.
And so, we have this
vicious cycle.
And I tell people that
you can solve that.
And one of the doctors --
one out of 31 doctors raised
their hand and did not agree,
and I heard her disagree.
Well, she said, "Well,
there's no time
for what you're talking about.
You're going to take
an hour massage
with your significant other?
You're going to romance her?
You're going to talk
to her in her ear
and you're going
to do...?"
I said, "Yeah.
So then, why don't you hire a
minimum wage worker, Doctor?
You have the money to hire
someone who can work for $8
or $9 an hour and do all your
chores that you're doing now,
like trust, you're
wasting your time doing,
and you can spend an hour
or two of delicious time
with your significant other."
>> Regina: Even if you're
going to a movie together
and holding hands or something,
all of that is the
beginning of intimacy.
>> Delgado: Sure.
>> Regina: And I hear so many
women that have anger issues
around the fact that they feel
like they've been just dismissed
and overlooked, and all of the
things that matter to them,
in favor of this fast pace,
very masculine paradigm society.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: As you say,
porn has been at the base
of a lot of it, and so forth.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: And the
women are checking out.
They're just saying, "I
don't need a relationship.
I can't deal with this anymore."
>> Delgado: Yeah.
They're going to go
shopping or eat chocolate.
I mean, it's more
exciting to them.
And.
>> Regina: Well, they're
getting more out of it.
>> Delgado: Yeah.
They are. They are.
Because, see, again, the sensory
nerves, the libido, the energy,
the sexual psyche, it all
starts at the brain first.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> Delgado: That's where sex is.
>> Regina: The brain
and the heart.
>> Delgado: The brain
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> Delgado: And men
don't quite get it
yet because they've been shunned
and then, if they approach women
who have been hurt, they
get put to the side.
And so, they have a
little a paradigm they need
to deal with as well.
>> Regina: Yes.
Yes.
>> Delgado: So the men and the
women in my courses are going
to learn how to really
integrate,
even if they've been
married for 20 years.
And believe it or not, I've had
couples that have been married
for 20 years and the
wife will confide,
"I've never had an orgasm,
you know, except by myself
by masturbation or a vibrator."
>> Regina: Right.
>> Delgado: And so, I
say, well, wait a minute.
Let's change that paradigm.
The man can delay,
not through, you know,
thinking of baseball
cards and things,
but there's ways
to make this work.
>> Regina: [Laughter]
Right.
>> Delgado: And I'm convinced
that with the proper herbs
and supplements and hormones
and energy and communication
that love is truly not dead.
>> Regina: As you said early on,
it doesn't matter
what the situation is.
>> Delgado: Right.
>> Regina: Love is
the universal solvent,
as I've earned one
physics professor say.
>> Delgado: Yes.
>> Regina: And I
agree with that.
So we have just a
minute or so left.
Any final thoughts on how we can
take ourselves to a new level?
We've talked about a lot today.
>> Delgado: Right.
I think, consider your
physical being as one
with your emotional being,
and begin to treat
your emotional being
with the same type of do unto
others as you'd do to yourself.
And Napoleon Hill stated
very clearly, you know,
in these 15 principles
of success,
as you manifest your health and
you eat healthy and you exercise
and you drink fresh water
and you take care of those
around you and you take
care of your emotions
and incorporate these thoughts,
these beautiful thoughts
every day, it's not something
that you're going to
do after six readings
and then notice this
profound difference.
You'll notice differences.
You'll notice improvements.
I'm a work in progress.
We're all a work in progress.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> Delgado: We all
can be better,
but we're also perfect
as we are.
Accept who we are and
be in love with life.
Life is great and just go to
our site, growyoungandslim.com.
It's all doable.
>> Regina: I agree.
Don't assume you have
to get out of this body
to make a good experience.
>> Delgado: That's right.
>> Regina: Thank you so much
for your time, and for your love
and passion and joy
and enthusiasm,
about putting these scripts
together for the rest of us
to be able to basically
reach the kind
of highs you reach all the time.
I appreciate it.
>> Delgado: I'm there for you.
We're going to make this happen.
>> Regina: Yes.
There are many ways to
break patterns of thinking,
but Nick's are amazing
direct and accessible.
Definitely worth a try.
You can find these
scripts on his website,
growyoungandslim.com, under
the health articles tab,
and then click on motivational.
You'll find a wealth of other
articles as well in this area.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on  Gaiam TV .
[ Music ]